Ingredients for the filling of Momos

1/2 cup finely chopped cabbage
1/2 cup finely chopped carrots
1 onion, finely chopped
an inch piece of ginger grated
salt to taste
a teaspoon of oil

Ingredients for the Dumpling (Momo) Skin

2 cups of all-purpose flour (maida)
water for kneading the dough

Method to make the momo | dumpling skin

Add the flour into a large mixing bowl (not salt added in the traditional momo). Add a little water at a time and knead to made a smooth dough. Once the dough comes together, keep kneading for about 5 minutes to make it smooth and elastic. The dough should not be sticky. Seal the dough in a zip lock bag making sure to press out all air within the bag and let it rest for at least 10 minutes. The dough will steam up the bag and become soft and easy to work with.

Method to make the filling for the momo | dumplings

Combine all the chopped vegetables in a bowl. Check, the salt levels and add the oil to it as well. Our next step is to fill roll the dough out, fill and shape it into dumplings (momos)

To make the half moon shaped momos | dumplings

Divide the dough into small lemon size portions of an inch in diameter. Dust the dough portions in flour and roll out into a circle. Don’t roll too thick, as the filling will push itself out and tear when steamed.

Place a small spoon of filling in the center of the rolled circle. Bring together the edges of the dough with a pinching and folding motion on one side and bring the other side to hold to the pinched side. By doing this, the half moon shaped momos will have a frilled look. Proceed the similar way with the remaining dough.

You can experiment with different shapes and sizes that you like. All it takes is some time and practice.

As you keep shaping the momos, you need to keep them on a greased platter and cover with a damp cloth to prevent them from drying out.

While you are shaping the momos, keep a steamer with water boiling. Grease the steamer pan with some oil to prevent the momos from sticking.

Place the shaped momos on the greased steamer pan. So when you have one set of shaped momos, place them in the steamer and steam on high for 5 to 7 minutes until you see a glaze on the skin. The skin will begin to shine. As soon as you notice this, turn off the heat and remove the momos from the steamer. Place them in a dish and keep covered.

Serve the Steamed Vegetable Momos along with Chilli Garlic Sauce
